= Bitcoin Gem

Bitcoin is a P2P crypto-currency. The Bitcoin gem aims to simplify communicating with a Bitcoin client running in server mode. It currently does this via the CLI, but support for JSON-RPC will be added in future.

I am currently in the process of adding all the API calls. This will take some time since I have to emulate the client for testing, but I will try to add a new call roughly daily until they are all there at which point the gem will be bumped to 1.0.0. I will also open the issue tracker at this point for feedback.

== Usage

<b>On Bitcoin clients</b>

Since the Bitcoin client deals with security issues it is in everyone's best interests that you use the latest client. Therefore, I will only be supporting the current version at the time of creation of this gem and subsequent versions as they are released.

New releases should target the latest Bitcoin client and the version will be specified here. If the version listed below is not your version look for either an earlier/later version of the gem or the client.

<em>Current Supported Version:</em> <b>0.3.17</b>

<b>On Ruby Versions and Frameworks</b>

This gem is intended to be used with Ruby 1.9.2. It is not intended specifically for any framework and I will try to keep it compatible with all of them, but most of my testing will be with Rails 3. Feedback and patches for other frameworks are appreciated.

=== Do the following to set up your Bitcoin client:

* Get Bitcoin if you haven't already from {bitcoin.org}[http://www.bitcoin.org]
* Install the application in the default location for your operating system.
  - <tt>/Applications/Bitcoin.app</tt> for Mac OS X
  - <tt>/usr/bin/bitcoind</tt> for Linux (Ubuntu)
* Edit or create your Bitcoin configuration. You may have to run the application once to generate the folder. Thereafter, it can be found at
  - <tt>$HOME/Library/Application\ Support/Bitcoin/bitcoin.conf</tt> on Mac OS X
  - <tt>$HOME/.bitcoin/bitcoin.conf</tt> on Linux (Ubuntu)
* Ensure the following line exists in that file
  - <tt>rpcpassword=ANYTHING_YOU_WANT_HERE</tt>
* Start the executable with the <tt>-server</tt> option (or as a daemon) under the user that your application or the gem will be running as e.g.
  - <tt>/Applications/Bitcoin.app -server</tt> on Mac OS X
  - <tt>/usr/bin/bitcoind</tt> on Linux (Ubuntu)
* Get the gem with <tt>gem install bitcoin</tt> or by using {Bundler}[http://gembundler.com].

<em>Test it out with the following:</em>

 $ irb
 > BITCOIN_EXECUTABLE = '/usr/bin/bitcoind' # or whatever
 => /usr/bin/bitcoind
 > require 'bitcoin'
 => true
 > Bitcoin::Client.getinfo
 => { "version"=>31700, "balance"=>0.0, "blocks"=>95000, "connections"=>8, "proxy"=>"", 
      "generate"=>true, "genproclimit"=>-1, "difficulty"=>8000.00000000, "hashespersec"=>500000, 
      "testnet"=>false, "keypoololdest"=>1291276195, "paytxfee"=>0.0, "errors"=>"" }

If all went well you can go to the {Bitcoin Faucet}[http://freebitcoins.appspot.com/] to get 0.05 BTC to help with testing. Also, remember to turn generation on; it may take a month or two to mine your first block but the (currently) 50 BTC will help with testing.

== More Background Information on Bitcoin

Bitcoin is a crypto-currency, which means a lot of hashing and verification is constantly going on to ensure the validity of transactions. This allows the network to govern itself and removes the need for a central regulator. This is why Bitcoin can also be peer-to-peer.

* Find out more about {how Bitcoin works}[http://www.bitcoinme.com].
* Read a blog about {current Bitcoin topics}[http://www.bitcoinblogger.com].
* Read the {official Bitcoin wiki}[http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php]. The JSON-RPC API is also documented {here}[http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=api].

== Author

You can find out about me or contact me from {here}[http://about.me/requnix].

If you have suggestions or comments you can also e-mail me: {michael.prins@me.com}[mailto:michael.prins@me.com?subject=Bitcoin%20Gem]

If you have found this gem useful and have BTC to spare you _could_ send them my way: <b>18V4MzDwX7q4548aXQoBeg7kedPzs67FsE</b>

<em>And no, I didn't generate addresses until I got one with the word 'Beg' in it, I swear.</em>

== Contributing to the Bitcoin Gem

* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Michael Prins. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

